>> A fascinating new study
examines the mysterious
twilight state between
wakefulness and sleep and finds
that it can be harnessed for
creativity and problem solving.
This is a Gaia News Breakdown.
Thomas Edison, Albert
Einstein, and Salvador Dali,
amongst others, are all said
to have used a curious napping
technique to spark
their creativity
and inspire discoveries--
holding an object in
their hands while napping.
They would wake
as the object fell
and recall the thoughts they
were having at that moment.
Inspired by these visionaries,
researcher Delphine Ouidette
and her colleagues at
the Paris Brain Institute
conducted a study to
scientifically investigate
this phenomenon.
The researchers
presented participants
with mathematical
problems that had
a hidden rule which
would allow them
to be solved almost instantly.
They were then given a 20-minute
break during which they
were instructed to relax
in a reclined position
while holding a bottle.
If the bottle fell,
they were asked
to report what they
had been thinking right
before they let go.
Throughout this break,
subject's physiological activity
was recorded to assess
their state of wakefulness.
Then after the break,
the participants
were again presented
with the math problems.
Findings revealed that
those who had dozed off
into a semi-lucid state
known as hypnagogia, or N1,
were three times more likely to
solve the hidden rule as those
who had stayed awake and six
times more likely to do so
than those who had
slipped into a deeper
sleep just a minute later.
The findings were
less clear in regard
to the technique
of dropping objects
to keep from deeper sleep
as some participants dropped
the bottle after they have
moved onto deeper sleep.
However, the study did
convincingly show that, quote,
"There is a creative sweet spot
within the sleep-onset period,
and hitting it
requires individuals
balancing falling asleep
easily against falling asleep
too deeply."
It's unclear why this N1
sleep stage boosts creativity.
Ouidette told Live
Science, quote,
"It might create an
ideal state where
you have this loose cognition
and weird associations,
and the ability to catch
it if you get a good idea."
Adam Haar Horowitz
of the MIT lab
sees the practical
implications of the study,
as he told
"Scientific American,"
quote, "It's the kind of study
that you can go ahead and try
at home yourself.
Grab a metal object,
lie down, focus hard,
and see what kind of eureka
moments you can encounter."
Ouidette is also very
excited about the potential
for practical
applications and hopes
future research will
determine if focusing
on this rich twilight
state might help solve
real-world tasks and problems.
"We could even
teach people," she
reported to
"Scientific American,"
"how to reach this
creative state at will."
So try it for yourself,
and perhaps you too
will get to experience
this intriguing potential
for creative insight.
For a new perspective, this
has been a Gaia News Breakdown.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.